Adding ADO example to dbt Cloud job on merge guide (#3505)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/guides/orchestration/custom-cicd-pipelines/3-dbt-cloud-job-on-merge.md

id: 3-dbt-cloud-job-on-merge
---

This job will take a bit more to setup, but is a good example of how to call the dbt Cloud API from a CI/CD pipeline. The concepts presented here can be generalized and used in whatever way best suits your use case.

> The setup below shows how to call the dbt Cloud API to run a job every time there is a push to your main branch (i.e. a PR is merged).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The setup below shows how to call the dbt Cloud API to run a job every time there is a push to your main branch (The branch where pull requests are typically merged. Commonly referred to as the primary, main, or master branch, but can be named differently).
```

id: 3-dbt-cloud-job-on-merge
---

This job will take a bit more to setup, but is a good example of how to call the dbt Cloud API from a CI/CD pipeline. The concepts presented here can be generalized and used in whatever way best suits your use case.

> The setup below shows how to call the dbt Cloud API to run a job every time there is a push to your main branch (The branch where pull requests are typically merged. Commonly referred to as the primary, main, or master branch, but can be named differently).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The setup below shows how to call the dbt Cloud API to run a job every time there is a push to your main branch (The branch where pull requests are typically merged. Commonly referred to as the main, primary, or master branch, but can be named differently).
```

<WistiaVideo id="u7mo30puql" />
</TabItem>

> <TabItem value="ADO">

Reviewer: adding ado as a value so it appears as tabs. currently ado not appearing in deploy preview 

<img width="895" alt="Screenshot 2023-06-12 at 10 08 28" src="https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/assets/89008547/4faa8159-b1f4-4ebe-a77f-064ba90a3364">

In Azure:

- Open up your Azure DevOps project where you want to run the pipeline (the same one that houses your dbt project)
- Click on *Pipelines* > *Create Pipeline*
- Select where your git code is located (should be *Azure Repos Git*)
- Select your git repository from the list
- Select *Starter pipeline* (this will be updated later in Step 4)
- Click on *Variables* > *New variable*
- In the *Name* field, input `DBT_API_KEY`
    - **It’s very important that you copy/paste this name exactly because it’s used in the scripts below.**
- In the *Value* section, paste in the key you copied from dbt Cloud
- Make sure the check box next to *Keep this value secret* is checked. This will mask the value in logs, and you won't be able to see the value for the variable in the UI.
- Click *OK* > *Save* to save the variable
- Save your new Azure pipeline

>     ![View of the Azure pipelines window for entering DBT_API_KEY](/img/guides/orchestration/custom-cicd-pipelines/dbt-api-key-azure.png)

Reviewer: adding images to `https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/tree/current/website/static/img/guides/orchestration/custom-cicd-pipelines` and will reference using `Lightbox src=/img/guides/orchestration/custom-cicd-pipelines/image_name.jpg`

>     ![View of the Azure pipelines window for entering DBT_API_KEY](/img/guides/orchestration/custom-cicd-pipelines/dbt-api-key-azure.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Lightbox src="/img/guides/orchestration/custom-cicd-pipelines/dbt-api-key-azure.png" width="85%" title="View of the Azure pipelines window for entering DBT_API_KEY"/>
```

    <WistiaVideo id="rgqs14f816" />
    
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ado">

In Azure:

- Open up your Azure DevOps project where you want to run the pipeline (the same one that houses your dbt project)
- Click on *Pipelines* and then *Create Pipeline*
- Select where your git code is located. It should be *Azure Repos Git*
  - Select your git repository from the list
- Select *Starter pipeline* (this will be updated later in Step 4)
- Click on *Variables* and then *New variable*
- In the *Name* field, enter the `DBT_API_KEY`
    - **It’s very important that you copy/paste this name exactly because it’s used in the scripts below.**
- In the *Value* section, paste in the key you copied from dbt Cloud
- Make sure the check box next to *Keep this value secret* is checked. This will mask the value in logs, and you won't be able to see the value for the variable in the UI.
- Click *OK* > *Save* to save the variable
- Save your new Azure pipeline

>     ![View of the Azure pipelines window for entering DBT_API_KEY](/img/guides/orchestration/custom-cicd-pipelines/dbt-api-key-azure.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Lightbox src="/img/guides/orchestration/custom-cicd-pipelines/dbt-api-key-azure.png" width="85%" title="View of the Azure pipelines window for entering DBT_API_KEY"/>
```

For this job, we'll set it up using the `gitlab-ci.yml` file as in the prior step (see Step 1 of the linting setup for more info). The YAML file will look pretty similar to our earlier job, but there is a new section called `variables` that we’ll use to pass in the required variables to the Python script. Update this section to match your setup based on the comments in the file.

> Please note that the `rules:` section now says to run **only** when there are pushes to a branch named `main` (i.e. a PR is merged). Have a look through [GitLab’s docs](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/yaml/#rules) on these filters for additional use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that the `rules:` section now says to run **only** when there are pushes to a branch named `main`, such as a PR being merged. Have a look through [GitLab’s docs](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/yaml/#rules) on these filters for additional use cases.
```

</Tabs>

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ado">

For this new job, open the existing Azure pipeline you created above and select the *Edit* button. We'll want to edit the corresponding Azure pipeline YAML file with the appropriate configuration, instead of the starter code, along with including a `variables` section to pass in the required variables.

> Copy the below YAML file into your Azure pipeline and update the variables below to match your setup based on the comments in the file. It's worth noting that we changed the `trigger` section so that it will run **only** when there are pushes to a branch named `master` (like a PR merged to your master branch). Have a read through [Azure's docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/build/triggers?view=azure-devops) on these filters for additional use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Copy the below YAML file into your Azure pipeline and update the variables below to match your setup based on the comments in the file. It's worth noting that we changed the `trigger` section so that it will run **only** when there are pushes to a branch named `master` (like a PR merged to your master branch). 

Read through [Azure's docs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/build/triggers?view=azure-devops) on these filters for additional use cases.
```

![dbt Cloud job showing it was triggered by GitLab](/img/guides/orchestration/custom-cicd-pipelines/dbt-cloud-job-gitlab-triggered.png)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ADO">

> ![dbt run on merge job in ADO](/img/guides/orchestration/custom-cicd-pipelines/dbt-run-on-merge-azure.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Lightbox src="/img/guides/orchestration/custom-cicd-pipelines/dbt-run-on-merge-azure.png" width="85%" title="dbt run on merge job in ADO"/>
```

> ![dbt Cloud job showing it was triggered by ADO](/img/guides/orchestration/custom-cicd-pipelines/dbt-cloud-job-azure-triggered.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Lightbox src="/img/guides/orchestration/custom-cicd-pipelines/dbt-cloud-job-azure-triggered.png)" width="85%" title="ADO-triggered job in dbt Cloud"/>
```

![dbt Cloud job showing it was triggered by GitLab](/img/guides/orchestration/custom-cicd-pipelines/dbt-cloud-job-gitlab-triggered.png)

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="ado">

<Lightbox src="/img/guides/orchestration/custom-cicd-pipelines/dbt-run-on-merge-azure.png" width="85%" title="dbt run on merge job in ADO"/>

> <Lightbox src="/img/guides/orchestration/custom-cicd-pipelines/dbt-cloud-job-azure-triggered.png" width="85%" title="ADO-triggered job in dbt Cloud"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Lightbox src="/img/guides/orchestration/custom-cicd-pipelines/dbt-cloud-job-azure-triggered.png" width="100%" title="ADO-triggered job in dbt Cloud"/>
```
